Old categories
     "peopl black american press nation time countri race south right") ~ "civil_society",
     "lynch state mrs negro bill presid nation citi church york") ~ "legal_redress",
     "mob white sheriff jail woman man kill men polic shot") ~ "lynch_mob",
     "lynch juri counti investig case feder trial attorney continu grand") ~ "investigate_lynching",
     "negro white man men women south school good race southern") ~ "race",
     "lynch mob state law court crime murder governor citizen year") ~ "legislation",
  ))


white narratives
Topic 1: lynchings "counti citi night mile jail day town morn march juli" 
Topic 2: criticizing_lynchings "law crime peopl lynch great excit state good citizen countri" 
Topic 3: negro_lynching "lynch mob negro jail men hang night crowd prison attempt" 
Topic 4: female_victim "negro murder white lynch man kill year assault charg mrs" 
Topic 5: 5_legal_proceedings "sheriff state court juri governor order offic prison judg deputi" 
Topic 6:  lynch_mob "bodi fire shot hang hous tree found street rope door" 


Black narratives

Topic 1: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
Topic 2: "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 
Topic 4: "lynch mob negro murder crime year charg victim violenc law"
Topic 5: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"
Topic 6: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"



Topic 1: investigate_lynching?: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
For Topic 1
"bp516.txt"      "bp258.txt.41"   "bp244.txt.53"   "bp571.txt"      "bp202.txt.1"   
 [6] "bp480.txt.41"   "86236_1.txt.16" "bp36.txt.8"     "bp51.txt.70"    "bp51.txt.101"  
[11] "bp108.txt.23"   "bp252.txt.158"  "bp253.txt.26"   "bp271.txt.42"   "bp278.txt.9"   
[16] "bp309.txt"      "bp346.txt.53"   "bp360.txt.40"   "bp383.txt.28"   "bp385.txt.12"  



investigate 0- grand jury
11-A new county grand jury
aas been given special instruc-
tions to investigate the recent
abduction and lynching of
Cord Cheek, 19 year old Negro, and
to "promptly indict" the perpetra-
tors if their identity could be deter-
In his charge, Criminal Judge
Charles Gilbert called the affair
""one of the most flagrant and out-
rageous violations of the law ever
committed or partly committed, in
· Davidson County." -

investigate - prosecution of lyncher
sthens federal grand Jury Tuesday
.card FBI testimony in the brutal
ass lynching of four Negroes in
Walton county July 25. Testimony
.ill continue this (Wednesday
_orning).
The grand jury will possibly ques-
on Loy Harrison, driver of the car
rom which the four victims were


investigate - prosecution of lynchers
-Despite thirteen preliminary motions to quash the indictment
against them, five Webster Parish (County) white men went on trial in the Federal Dis-
trict Court here Monday morning on charges of violating the civil liberties statues in
conmaction with the abduction and lynching of John C. Jones, Negro World War II vete-
1..


investigate - prosecution of lynches
MARION; Ind., March 13 The
second trial of one of the alleged
mob murderers who lynched. two col-
ored men in Marion, Ind, has
sulted in an acquittal, according to
Mra. W. T. Bailey, of this city, preal-
dent of the Indians state conference
of branches of the National Associa
tion for the Advancement of Colored:
People.

investigate - prosecute lynchers
TATES REFUSE TO PUNISH LYNCHERS REFUSE TO PUNISH LYNCHERS
Two years or so ago a Negro in North Carolina was
lucky to save his life and the state the disgrace of a lynch-
ing by the combination of some phenomenal luck and fleet-
ness of foot. A short time ago a Negro in Louisiana was
saved from a nching because his would-be-lynchers were
casting lots, not for his garments, but
for the honor of being the one to plug

lynching spectacle
The lynching Friday night near Mariauna, Fla.. was a par-
ticularly deliberatene might even say leisurely-affair. Un-
like most lynchings, it was not a quick and furtive deed of mob
violence. The 'ynchers took their time. Nor was this the only
respect in which this lynching was exceptional; the mob worked
amazingly in the open. The events accompanying the crime took
place in the full gaze of the public, and with the knowledge of
the officers of the law.


lack of anti-lynch law
Lynching and Brotherhood
Highlighting the observance of National Brother
hood Week in America this year was the first lynching of
1947, which occurred in South Carolina.
1917. year of promise- era of atomic power and
the United States record is blotted with an old fashioned
downright, out and out brutal lynching. No trial by jury,
no protection by the law, nothing to signify the justice,
fair play, and promise of peaceful living of man with man
that America is supposed to be the shining symbol of.
This is bloody proof to the new Congress that America
does need an anti- lynch law. All of the education and
brotherhood has become a mockery
preaching about
crushed beneath another corpse in the huge pile of those
who have met violent death by lynchings.
An anti- lynch law properly enforced by the Federal
Government would halt this blatant disregard of human
life.


investigate and prosecute
WELL, WE HOPE IT WON'T
BE TOO HOT IN HELL, ANYWAY
Walhalla, S. C., S. C.
-When, and if, it ever gets cooler in South Carolina, seren-, and if, it ever gets cooler in South Carolina, seren
teen white men charged with the lynching on April 24 of Allen Green, will
probably be weighed in the balance of the blind goddess of justice, as blind as
she can be in South Carolina...But as long as it remains sultry and unpleasant,
judges prosecutors, jurors, and the 17 men accused of mob-murdering Green,
who was arrested for "attempting to attack" an 18-year-old white girl, just
won't be inconvenienced.
Judge M. L. Bonham has granted a motion of defense counsel for contin-
uance until next fall because of the "excessive heat," "until some time when
the weather is cooler.". As soon as the judgment was rendered Solicitor Leon
W. Brasfield, representing the State against the prisoners, snatched his hat and
rushed to a meeting where he spoke for his election to the United States Senaté
in opposition to Senator Cole Blease.
The eyes of the entire state are focused upon this case due to the fact
that among those indicted are Mayor Robert Lee Ballinger and policeman Alvin
Jones, who have been positively Identified as members of the mob which lynched
Allen Green April 24, when he was accused of attacking a white woman.

lynching and bill stymied
EDITORIAL
America's Fifth Lynching Fifth Lynching
America's fifth lynching for 1939 has just come to light
with the revelation that a Mississippt Negro was tortured to
death with hot irons for the crimes of refusing to pay for a
company owned shack which he did not occupy.
The remarkable thing about this lynching is that it was
(how reported by any of the large press associations which
pride themselves on garnering all of the news.
Had they done so there is no doubt that the innocent
worker's attempt to stand up for his rights would have been
garbled and he would have been reported as having insulted
a white woman, that despite the fact that he was a deacon
in his church and obviously a law abiding citizen.
Hard on the heels of this lynching comes news that the
Florid brothers who lynched another Negro because of a
traffic accident have been freed.
Case hardened Americans will pay little attention to these
murders; they are hardly news.
Meanwhile, the anti-lynching bill is again stymied in
senate and congress committees and the N.A.A.C.P. is work-
ing hard to get enough signatures to withdraw the m
from committee.
