Old categories
     "peopl black american press nation time countri race south right") ~ "civil_society",
     "lynch state mrs negro bill presid nation citi church york") ~ "legal_redress",
     "mob white sheriff jail woman man kill men polic shot") ~ "lynch_mob",
     "lynch juri counti investig case feder trial attorney continu grand") ~ "investigate_lynching",
     "negro white man men women south school good race southern") ~ "race",
     "lynch mob state law court crime murder governor citizen year") ~ "legislation",
  ))


white narratives
Topic 1: lynchings "counti citi night mile jail day town morn march juli" 
Topic 2: criticizing_lynchings "law crime peopl lynch great excit state good citizen countri" 
Topic 3: negro_lynching "lynch mob negro jail men hang night crowd prison attempt" 
Topic 4: female_victim "negro murder white lynch man kill year assault charg mrs" 
Topic 5: 5_legal_proceedings "sheriff state court juri governor order offic prison judg deputi" 
Topic 6:  lynch_mob "bodi fire shot hang hous tree found street rope door" 


Black narratives

Topic 1: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
Topic 2: "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 
Topic 4: "lynch mob negro murder crime year charg victim violenc law"
Topic 5: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"
Topic 6: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"


Topic 3:  legislation:
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 


[1] "bp80.txt.110"   "bp675.txt.4"    "bp80.txt.113"   "bp260.txt.31"   "bp525.txt"     
 [6] "bp527.txt"      "90597_1.txt.25" "91111_0.txt.42" "19936_0.txt.99" "90586_0.txt.12"
[11] "bp78.txt.72"    "bp146.txt.15"   "bp179.txt.69"   "bp288.txt.35"   "bp346.txt.26"  
[16] "bp385.txt.17"   "bp424.txt.37"   "bp429.txt.6"    "bp454.txt.7"    "bp480.txt"   


local lynching and an5i lynch bill
LYNCHING-PLAIN TALK TALK PLAIN-
Memphis, Tenn. (Commercial Appeal) Thursday, April 15, 1937 15 1937, April Thursday, Appeal) Commercial Tenn.(,
The torture lynching of two Negroes at Duck Hill, Miss., is an un-
speakable crime. Lynching at law is murder. But mob murder is often
more than murder, it represents a relapse into a psychic state that it is
an insult to primitive man to call savagery.
Every responsible official of Mississippi is put on the spot by inis
crime. It must be investigated and followed by the indictment and
prosecution of the offenders, or the state will suffer a terrific loss of
face. Coming on the heels of steady decline in the number of lynch-
ings, the crime at Duck Hill is a crime against the whole South.
The tendency of mobs to revert to torture and sadistic orgy is age-old
and world-wide. In "The Crowd," Gustave Le Bon more than a genera-
tion ago explained that in a mob the individual intellect and individual-
ity is dormant, superseded for the time being by the collective mob
mind, which represents the lowest common denominator of human
mentality.
Such a relapse evidently occurred at Duck Hill, where the use of a
blow torch in torture rivaled the barbaric mutilations in the massacre
of nonunion miners at Herrin, Ill., a few years ago. The blow torch as
an instrument of torture has not yet been adopted by the degenerate
gangsters of New York, who still prefer slowly to hack their victims
with cold steel. Burning with cigar butts used to be a routine incident
of being "taken for a ride" in the environs of Chicago, but the blow
torch seems to be something new in sadistic technology.
*
Coming at a time when anti-lynching bills are up in Congress, 

new anti lynching bill
N.A.A.C.P. DRAFTING NEW ANTI-LYNCHING BILL BILL LYNCHING ANTI- NEW DRAFTING
COMMITTEE SAYS
IT IS ONLY WAY
TO STOP THE MOB
Bill Will Be Introduced In January, 1934-Will Have
Plenty "Teeth."
NEW YORK, Nov. 2-A new federal anti-lynching bill
is being drafted by the legal committee of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, it was
announced here. The bill will be introduced in the next
Congress which convehes in January, 1934.
-:18:— —
"It is plain to everyone that the states are unwilling unwilling are states plain to It is
or unable to stop lynching." said'


anti lynch programs
DEMOCRATS FIGHT LYNCH EVIL FIGHT LYNCH EVIL
Monroe Slayers Face Grand Jury Slayers Face Grand Jury
(Defender New York Sureau) Defender New York Sureau)
YORK — Atty. Gen.
would institute a strong anti-lynch institute a strong anti- lynch
program in accord with the Chi-
cago Defender's vigorous crusade
against the lynch evil.
In an address at the fifteenth an-
nual New York Herald Tribune
forum on Current Problems, Clark
said:



legislation - twice 1, 3
passage of the Anti-Poll Tax bill by an overwhelming majority in the House is cer-
ya vietory of democracy. This is not only heartening news to the Negro people
Country: but this is also heartening news to all the oppressed people of the
The abolition of Poll Tax system will be the victory of this World War II, which
BY LIU LIANG-MO LIU LIANG- MO
THE POLL TAX BILL
AND LYNCHINGS BEING
EAGERLY WATCHED BY
OPPRESSED PEOPLES
magle's W
a revolutional
lair for ..erty and libera-
Present Roosevelt de-;
= (totaW


threats to new blacks. discussion anti lynching bill. legislation
EBT SLAVERY IS LOOMING AS MENACE IN SOUTHLAND SOUTHLAND IN MENACE AS LOOMING IS SLAVERY
W MENACE IS SEEN AS
INCHINGS DECREASE
WAKE OF MIGRATION
By ART SHIELDS, Federated Press Press Federated SHIELDS, ART
NEW YORK, Jan. 14.-The New Negro fights for his
lie defends himself against lynch mobs. Not always,
more often than in Uncle Tom days. That is one reason,
has
Walter White, assistant secretary, the N. A. A. C. P.,
lynchings of 18 Negroes to report for 1925 and 16 for 1924
of the old annual average of
valiant self defense by ten- !
farmers
and wage
carners
seldom
ást their oppre;
oned in press service d-patch-
There's a reason. But the rows
around and every such se
to tame the next would bel
mob.
ruling class in the South has
reasons to cease lynching.
labor is scarcer and dearer
a million and a half Negroes
the cotton and corn fields for
lorthern industries. Every Negro
ered speeds this migration.
But though the lynch terror is
less frequently than before,
forms of prosecution against
orker and farmer with a dark
Continue. Debt slavery lingers
the cotton plantations of the
Mississippi valley. And run-
debtors are still sent to chain
or leased to mines, turpentine
amps and other work hells for priv-
toasters.
The National Association has been
ery much on the job as a civil liber-
let union for the members of its
adIt has done much to organize
wtiment on the ground and its
gation for, federal anti-lynching
slation has helped to keep the
louth's great shame before the eyes
the world. And it conducts legal
est eases that set precedants in the
Negroes' campaign for such measure
d freedom as whites have. Three
mportant cases it has before the
ourts at present are:
The defense of Dr. Sweet,



