Old categories
     "peopl black american press nation time countri race south right") ~ "civil_society",
     "lynch state mrs negro bill presid nation citi church york") ~ "legal_redress",
     "mob white sheriff jail woman man kill men polic shot") ~ "lynch_mob",
     "lynch juri counti investig case feder trial attorney continu grand") ~ "investigate_lynching",
     "negro white man men women south school good race southern") ~ "race",
     "lynch mob state law court crime murder governor citizen year") ~ "legislation",
  ))


white narratives
Topic 1: lynchings "counti citi night mile jail day town morn march juli" 
Topic 2: criticizing_lynchings "law crime peopl lynch great excit state good citizen countri" 
Topic 3: negro_lynching "lynch mob negro jail men hang night crowd prison attempt" 
Topic 4: female_victim "negro murder white lynch man kill year assault charg mrs" 
Topic 5: 5_legal_proceedings "sheriff state court juri governor order offic prison judg deputi" 
Topic 6:  lynch_mob "bodi fire shot hang hous tree found street rope door" 


Black narratives

Topic 1: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
Topic 2: "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 
Topic 4: "lynch mob negro murder crime year charg victim violenc law"
Topic 5: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"
Topic 6: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"


Topic 6: unknown: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"

[1] "bp399.txt.9"    "89852_0.txt.8"  "bp155.txt.12"   "bp158.txt.45"   "90636_0.txt.2" 
 [6] "91137_0.txt.9"  "bp155.txt.56"   "bp245.txt.12"   "bp364.txt.43"   "bp495.txt.34"  
[11] "17255_0.txt.21" "87441_2.txt.21" "bp42.txt.161"   "bp107.txt.19"   "bp107.txt.26"  
[16] "bp146.txt.6"    "bp155.txt.58"   "bp158.txt.32"   "bp158.txt.34"   "bp193.txt.8"   


ga cant find lynchers
The Georgia state police announced to the nation, Tuesday that
they have run into" a stone wall" in the attempt to apprehend the
murderers of the four Negroes at Monroe, Ga., last week. They just
can't find out a single thing, the boys lament to the
country's press.
Read this reprint from a story carried in last
Sunday's edition of New York newspaper PM, written
by reporter Tom O'Connor who was sent to Monroe to
cover the slaying:
" I have just seen the first proof of Eugene Tal-
madge's election as Governor of Georgia. I saw it in
the basement of Dan Young's funeral parlor( for
colored) here in Monroe.
" An embalmer was sewing up bullet holes in one
of the girls, Dorothy Malcolm. He had already done
his best to patch up the rifle and pistol bullet holes in
the other girl and the two fellows lynched here Thurs-
Nell Russell
day night.


boys in miss lynched
[Special to The Chicago Defender] Defender] Chicago The Special to
MARKS, Miss., June 15.-In spite of President Roosevelt's
admonition to the people of the United States that mass murder
must cease, the state of Mississippi continued its mob justice
by lynching two more boys Friday afternoon.
The youths, Joe Love and Isaac
Thomas, both about 18 years old, and,
homeless, were taken from
the
sheriff of Bolivar county, and hangen
to a railroad trestle near Alligatur.
a small town in Quitman county, by
a mob of more than 200 persons
among whom were men, women and
children of all walks of life.
"And the case," wired Sheriff W, T.
Haynes to Governor Rice of Miss-
issippi, "is closed." The sheriff ex-
plained further that he could recox-
níze none of the members of the
mob.


clemency for lynchers?
The Globe Trotter Globe Trotter
Bv Cliff Mackay Cliff Mackay
Prediction Comes True Comes True
READING THE NEWSPAPER accounts of the
clemency hearings held before Governor Talmadge
in the cases of the six East Point (Ga) floggers,
this writer cannot help but think of the admonition
stated by the late Booker T. Washington years ago
that beatings and lynching of Negroes would inev-
stably lead to beatings and lynching of white men.
A perfect example of the truth
of this conclusion has been shown
in the cases of these men, facing
comparatively brief terms, but who
now plead to be released from even
this punishment.
time this reaches
Perhaps by the
print the Gov-
ernor will have already reached a
decision. That
will not matter
since whether or not these men go
free does in no way affect this
piece.
The tragedy was that those re-
sponsible for the enforcement of
just
But seeing 

s.c. lynching in pickens co
The Pickens County Lynching Pickens County Lynching
(From The Lighthouse And Informer) From The Lighthouse And Informer)
Monday morning, South Carolina and the rest of the i
country, set to begin "Brotherhood Week", awoke to find
the brutal lynching of a Pickens County Negro at the hands
of an estimated 35 white men.
Saturday night, near Liberty in Pickens County, a
white taxi driver of Greenville was beaten and robbed by a
colored fare and authorities arrested 35-year-old Willie
Earle of Liberty as a suspect and placed him in the county
jail at Pickens. pending further investigation.
Around 5 A. M. Monday, an armed mob arrived at the
little red jail house at Pickens and at gun point forced
Jailer Ed Gilstrap to surrender the prisoner, locked in a sec-
ond floor cell. About. seven o'clock the stabbed and shot
body of Earle was found just over the Pickens line in
Greenville County



extreme lynching violence
LYNCHERS THE OF LUST THE
We used to speak of epidemics of lynching, when that barbarous practice
received some unusual impetus and seemed to show evidence of contagion
. The expression granted the existence of a moral and social weakness
which would yield to scientific treatment, but the recent revival of the
scourge in its most virulent form indicates that its seat in the white man's
nature is of a mental rather than a physical character. Oklahoma's recent
disgrace, through the ruthless murder of a colored woman and her child by
a jelly- brained mob, has been quite surpassed in Pennsylvania, where a
wounded Negro prisoner, chained to a hospital cot, was carried and dragged.
cot and all, over several miles of road, and thrown into a blazing fire, where,
against his struggles to liberate himself from his chains, he was kept in
place and in fiery torment with fence rails, pitch- forks and other improvised
prods and tongs. His crime was attempted robbery and the killing of a
white officer undertaking his arrest. His punishment was far beyond the
revenge of the savage.



slave farm
In the wake of gruesome lynchings, entailing such weird prac-
tices as vivisection, castration, burnings and beatings, comes to the
light," the tale of Death Farm." The Death Farm is located in Jasper
County, Georgia, abutting the Yellow River. There it lies in the red
hills, where scores of black people have been and are still held in
slavery. There they are forced to work and toil under the pitiless
lash of the mule- driving overseer. When the task of the farm became
irksome to the human beasts of burden and they either lagged
John William( white),
of complained the climax of story came.
owner of Death Farm, would the chain their wretched bodies together,
Death Farm and Its Tragedies.
of the crimes
Many of us object to the harrowing exposures
committed in the Southland. Some are heard to exclaim that they
get tired of reading about the maltreatment and lynching of their
people. Others exclaim that our newspapers aggravate the conditions
and cause unnecessary alarm to the public Such objections
are foolish and do not hold water..

mother of lynched son hiding, 3,4,7
Mrs. Eliza Parker, whose son
Mack Charles Parker, 23, w as
dragged screaming from a Poplar.
ville, Miss., jail cell by hooded
night riders April 25, is in se-
clusion at the Merced home of her
sister, Mrs. Lola Peters. She left
Mississippi Monday night, arriving
in Merced about Wednesday.
Mrs. Parker declined to discuss
her trip but her sister said she
had been threatened, but not by
any single person.
"She's real scared and won't
come to the telephone," said Mrs.
Peters.


president pleas for end of lynching
THE" BOCHES" IN GEORGIA
O In spite of the direct personal pleading of President Wilson to the
white Americans, that they would everywhere uphold and respect the
majesty of the law, and stop the damnable savage pastime of the white
South- the lynching of human beings; there still remains, everywhere in
Dixie a cowardly gang of white men, under disguise of loyal and patriotic
citizens, who continue to mob helpless members of the Race. This week,
a gang of these savage white cattle, down in old hell- ridden Georgia, at
Macon, the hot- bed for" red- necks,"" hill billies"" red shirts" and" crackers",
a member of the Race, ALLEGED to have committed a serious crime in the
community, was lynched by a mob of white men.
President Wison said such persons who would so mock the principles
for which America is fighting, as to join a mob to lynch a human being,
was unworthy of the citizenship of America. But old polluted Georgia, the


lynch mob
5,000 Would-Be Lynchers Storm Jail, But
Girl In Case Says Suspect Is Innocent
Coatesville, Pa., Scene of Mob Murder In 1912, Stages
Negroes of
Another Midnight Raid
-
Town Mobilized.
Negra:
COATESVILLE, Pa., June 9-Back in 1912, a
Zacharias Walker, was lynched in this sleepy Pennsyl
vania town.COATESVILLE
Last Friday night, as the clock in the courthouse struck courthouse struck in the night, as the clock Friday
the hour of midnight, 5,000 would-
be lynchers, who included in their |
number firemen and policemen,
stormed the jall in an attempt to
seize 21-year-old James Ward.
The crime which aroused the