Old categories
     "peopl black american press nation time countri race south right") ~ "civil_society",
     "lynch state mrs negro bill presid nation citi church york") ~ "legal_redress",
     "mob white sheriff jail woman man kill men polic shot") ~ "lynch_mob",
     "lynch juri counti investig case feder trial attorney continu grand") ~ "investigate_lynching",
     "negro white man men women south school good race southern") ~ "race",
     "lynch mob state law court crime murder governor citizen year") ~ "legislation",
  ))


white narratives
Topic 1: lynchings "counti citi night mile jail day town morn march juli" 
Topic 2: criticizing_lynchings "law crime peopl lynch great excit state good citizen countri" 
Topic 3: negro_lynching "lynch mob negro jail men hang night crowd prison attempt" 
Topic 4: female_victim "negro murder white lynch man kill year assault charg mrs" 
Topic 5: 5_legal_proceedings "sheriff state court juri governor order offic prison judg deputi" 
Topic 6:  lynch_mob "bodi fire shot hang hous tree found street rope door" 


Black narratives

Topic 1: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
Topic 2: "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 
Topic 4: "lynch mob negro murder crime year charg victim violenc law"
Topic 5: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"
Topic 6: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"


Topic 5: legislation-civil society?: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"


 [1] "bp156.txt.104"   "bp703.txt.1"     "bp424.txt.1"     "bp64.txt.6"     
 [5] "bp168.txt.3"     "bp192.txt.32"    "bp396.txt.4"     "bp564.txt.16"   
 [9] "bp631.txt.2"     "19936_0.txt.130" "bp103.txt.46"    "bp370.txt.3"    
[13] "bp407.txt.6"     "89851_0.txt.14"  "91078_1.txt.1"   "bp24.txt.4"     
[17] "bp33.txt.1"      "bp57.txt.294"    "bp93.txt.23"     "bp106.txt.42"   

trial
AWKINSVILLE, Ga.-"It's a lynching." lynching." It's a, Ga .-"
There was no other way a Georgia judge could sum up the case
of the death here of Negro sawmill worker Joe Sanford as he
charged
an all-white jury here
Monday to "rise up in righteous
indignation" over the death of the
slain man.
this
"I do not believe." said County
Circuit Judge Whaley, "that even
the men who committed
crime could gloat over it if they
had seen, as I have seen, the pic-
ture of this dead Ners, mal-i
treated, slashed, stabbed, hog-tied)
with wire and gutted like an
animal.
"Certainly it did not take a
brave man, or brave men, to ac-1
complish this illegal action. This.
is a lynching."
Judge Whaley made his state-
ment as the jury probed the kill-
ing of Sanford who disappeared
from his home in Cochran, Feb.
1 and was found a month later
at the bottom of Limestone Creek
near Hawkinsville.



condemns lynching, white paper, trial
CAROLINA DAILY RECALLS
Editorial, Written On
Fifth Anniversary Of
Crime, Reveals Facts
Columbia, S. C., Graphically Recalls to Memory Incidents
And Highlights of Brutal Affair-Doesn't Try
To Distort Facts.
"Screaming impotently into the night, the three-one of them innocent
by a verdict of a South Caroline court-wero bundled into waiting automo-
biles and then, just outside of the city limits in a little putch of woods,
they were shot to death-
And thus does The Columbia Record of Columbia, S. C., a
fearless organ of the south, and of more significance, a white
daily newspaper, recall to memory the damnable lynchings of
three Negroes five years ago in Aiken, S. C., in an editorial
entitled "An Anniversary."
The editorial goes into a detailed and graphic account of editorial goes into a detailed and graphic account of
incidents relative to the case,
mine riots Tennessee's and Colo-
rado's, this was the most inexcus-
able. It was not doce in sudden
heat and passion. The crime which
it avenged-the killing of the sheriff
in a raid on the Lowinań home near
Monetta in whis" Annie Lowman
lost her life and Bertha Lowman's
unborn child cled-was many months
past. The second trial was actually
in progress and one of the thre
the mob knew, was not guilty under
South Carolina law, made and in-
terpreted by white South Carolinians.
That as five years ago. Two gov-
ernors and an attorney general
sought to discover and arrest the
members of the mob. Two grand
Jurics invtigated the slaying-after
& fashion. But to no avail. Never
has there been a rest made or an
indictment brought. Officially the
slaying remains the work of "per-
sons unknown."

southern lynching
Killings B, Posses' Taking
Place Of Lynchings In SouthB
NEW YORK, Sept. 22-Progressive leaders in the South are becoming "perturbed"
over the method now being used by southern mobs in the lynching of Negroes, according
to a recent article appearing in The Indiana Catholic and Record, a Catholic newspaper
published in Indianapolis, Ind.
This device pernilts mobs to
snatch their victims before they are
taken into custody, set themselves
up as a posse. lynch their prey and
then declare that the victim was
"killed while resisting arest." The
complete text of the article, which
carried à Greenwood, Miss. date
line follows.


black evacuated in fla
GROVELAND, Fla.-More
than four hundred Negro
citizens of this little central
Florida town were evacuated
last Saturday following a
near-lynching of two Negro
prisoners by an armed mob
of more than one hundred
400 Flee Mob
In Fla. Town
(Continue from Page 11
laws of Florida and the United
States and to protect my prisoners.
This is a crucial moment that
could cause a crisis here and
throughout the state. Let's let th

civil rights march
Negroes Here To Join Washington March
If 'Ike' Doesn't Condemn Hate Bombings
March On Washington On Washington
By ART PETERS, Staff Writer ART PETERS, Staff Writer
(Continued from Page 1).
March on Washington, D.C.
L´D BUS FIGHT
:
Albernathy, who is vice presi-
dent of the Montgomery Îm-|
provement Association, the, or-
ganization which is led by the
noted Rev. Martin Luther King.
Jr., helped lead the successful
year-long boycott against segre-
gated buses in Montgomery, Ala.
The Negroes. of Montgomery
won their battle with bus segre.
gation after nearly one year of
walking when the Supreme
segregation on
Court ruled that
Alabama buses is illegal.
Since that time, a wave of ra-
many
homes
clal violence has swept
southern cities and the
and churches of several Negro
ministers who are leading the
fight for Integration have been
bombed.



mob lynch whte man. attempted lynch of a girl
Woman Leads
Mob In Effort
To Kill Girl
Would Seize Girl Who
Slew White Man In
Self Defense
(Reprint from last week's City Edition) Reprint from last week's City Edition)
Special to Journal and Gulde to Journal and Gulde
, Okla.- Sinking to new)
depths in its quest for blood, a mob
of 200 lynch-crazed Oklahomans led
by the widow of the victim, made an
unsuccessful attempt Wednesday
to deliver 19-year old Olivia Gard-
ner from the local jail where she
had been lodged charged with the
fatal shooting of S. E. Harlan, 32-
year old PWA truck driver.
Miss Gardner, who police officials
claim confessed to the slaying, said
that she fired in self-defense.
Acting quickly to forestall the
lynch-bent mob, Sheriff Henry A.
Savage, posted five deputies out-,
side of the jail, and spirited the
would-be lynch victim to a neighbor-
ing town for safekeeping.

tenn lynching - anti-lynch bill
LYNCHING-PLAIN TALK TALK PLAIN-
Memphis, Tenn. (Commercial Appeal) Thursday, April 15, 1937 15 1937, April Thursday, Appeal) Commercial Tenn.(,
The torture lynching of two Negroes at Duck Hill, Miss., is an un-
speakable crime. Lynching at law is murder. But mob murder is often
more than murder, it represents a relapse into a psychic state that it is
an insult to primitive man to call savagery.
Every responsible official of Mississippi is put on the spot by inis
crime. It must be investigated and followed by the indictment and
prosecution of the offenders, or the state will suffer a terrific loss of
face. Coming on the heels of steady decline in the number of lynch-
ings, the crime at Duck Hill is a crime against the whole South.
The tendency of mobs to revert to torture and sadistic orgy is age-old
and world-wide. In "The Crowd," Gustave Le Bon more than a genera-
tion ago explained that in a mob the individual intellect and individual-
ity is dormant, superseded for the time being by the collective mob
mind, which represents the lowest common denominator of human
mentality.



lynching a social issue
LYNCHING-A SOCIAL DISEASE- A SOCIAL DISEASE
By DAVID W. THOMAS, Professor of History, University of Arkansas DAVID W. THOMAS, Professor of History, University of Arkansas
Editor's Note.-Mr. Thomas is white and writes the following article
in the Little Rock, Ark., Gazette, a white paper.Note.-Mr.
The press of Arkansas
lished a letter purporting
a committee of the mob which lynched
the negro at Stuttgart. of course, they
seek to justify their netion. In view of
this and of other lynchings in this and
other states, the following facts ought to
be of interest to the Stuttgart commit-
recently pub-
to come from
tee and to the people of the state.



Lynching investigation
POPLARVILLE, Miss. - (UPI) — A 58-year-old
white Baptist minister said yesterday the FBI told him
several persons have named him as prime suspect in the
lynching of a Negro alleged rapist.
By CLIFF SESSIONS CLIFF SESSIONS
Man Says He Is Named
In Parker's Lynching
