Old categories
     "peopl black american press nation time countri race south right") ~ "civil_society",
     "lynch state mrs negro bill presid nation citi church york") ~ "legal_redress",
     "mob white sheriff jail woman man kill men polic shot") ~ "lynch_mob",
     "lynch juri counti investig case feder trial attorney continu grand") ~ "investigate_lynching",
     "negro white man men women south school good race southern") ~ "race",
     "lynch mob state law court crime murder governor citizen year") ~ "legislation",
  ))


white narratives
Topic 1: lynchings "counti citi night mile jail day town morn march juli" 
Topic 2: criticizing_lynchings "law crime peopl lynch great excit state good citizen countri" 
Topic 3: negro_lynching "lynch mob negro jail men hang night crowd prison attempt" 
Topic 4: female_victim "negro murder white lynch man kill year assault charg mrs" 
Topic 5: 5_legal_proceedings "sheriff state court juri governor order offic prison judg deputi" 
Topic 6:  lynch_mob "bodi fire shot hang hous tree found street rope door" 


Black narratives

Topic 1: "state court law case juri offic unit investig made feder" 
Topic 2: "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 
Topic 3: "law race lynch bill negro nation civil right countri peopl" 
Topic 4: "lynch mob negro murder crime year charg victim violenc law"
Topic 5: "mrs governor continu york presid citi nation associ page church"
Topic 6: "jail sheriff counti mob bodi negro night shot found kill"


Topic 2: race - "white negro man color men south peopl lynch black woman" 

[1] "bp512.txt.8"   "bp103.txt"     "bp561.txt"     "bp314.txt"     "bp156.txt.6"  
 [6] "bp398.txt"     "17666_0.txt.5" "87433_0.txt.2" "bp239.txt.2"   "bp338.txt.39" 
[11] "bp540.txt"     "bp661.txt.216" "bp7.txt.459"   "bp36.txt.7"    "bp95.txt.9"   
[16] "bp106.txt.9"   "bp118.txt.35"  "bp120.txt.36"  "bp174.txt.31"  "bp179.txt.35" 

Race
The White Man's Burden Burden Man's White
MILLER KELLY By
T
HE LATE MR. DOOLEY used to say that the trouble with the
Negro is that he is too easily lyrched. To paraphrase Mr. Doug-
lass' expression: "The race that is lynched easiest is lynched
u.terest" The Negro, being the most frequent victim of mob violence,
makes the greatest outcry against the barbarity and iniquity of it. The
man who feels the wound will utter the groan.
But on thoughtful analysis it readily appears that the white man is on thoughtful analysis it readily appears that the white man is
is the greater sufferer from the
mob malady, albeit the Negro bears
the heaviest brunt of affliction.
The reactionary effect of the rabies
of race hatred which prompts
nching is well described by the
post Goldsmith in his well known
nes on "A Mad Dog":Tas
R and man at first were
friends.


black economy - race
Modern day lynchings affect Black economy day lynchings affect Black economy
Racism sent a letter to Ford CEO
Alexander Trotman complaining
about that auto manufacturer's foot
dragging on discrimination suits
filed in 1993 and 1995. These law-
suits include a class-action suit
against Ford Motor Credit Co. filed
by black employees and ex-
employees.
"It is Ford's failure to drive sys-
temic and structural changes in
your corporate culture that is the
root cause of your problems,"
stated the Coalition's letter. This
letter criticized Ford claims that the
lawsuit plaintiffs are just poor per-
formers who have mental and/or
emotional defects.


w va lynching prosecution
CHARLESTON, W. Va., Dec.
17-The first tangible results
of the State investigation into
the lynching of two NegrOES
by a mob at Lewisburg last
Wednesday morning came. Sat-
urday afternoon when three broth.
iers. who nad bean arrested earlier
Governor Conley Demands and
Gets Speedy Action Follow-
ing Lynching In Lewisburg,
W. Va.Conley


witness to a lynchin
'Witness' Reports Lynching In South Carolina Carolina South Lynching In Reports Witness'
CAROLINA
A responsible South Carolina Citizen who arrived in At.
lanta Friday said that he and his wife witnessed the lynch-
ing of a Negro man at Elko, South Carolina, while passing
through the small village Thursday morning around 9:30
o'clock.
with a
The South Carolinian, who ask-
ed that his name not be used in
connection
news story,
said that he was driving from
Charleston to Augusta when fore-
ed to slow down by a large crowd
gathered before a railroad shack
to the left of the highway. In the
midst of the crowd and suspended
by the neck on a rope from what
appeared to
be all
improvised |
at the top
two-by-four scaffold
of the shack was a well dressed
Negro man, it was stated. About
40 white persons, mostly
men,


lynch investigation
The Rev. James Lee, pastor of a rural Baptist church Rev. James Lee, pastor of a rural Baptist church
POPLARVILLE, Miss. - (UPI) — A 58-year-old
white Baptist minister said yesterday the FBI told him
several persons have named him as prime suspect in the
lynching of a Negro alleged rapist.
By CLIFF SESSIONS CLIFF SESSIONS
Man Says He Is Named
In Parker's Lynching


lynching of boys
Old French Rule Still Good Strategy French Rule Still Good Strategy
By WILLIAM PICKENS WILLIAM PICKENS
FTEN YOU are not told what
is really behind, or at bottom
of the lynching.
You are
simply told that the "Negro was
lynched for murder but you are
not told that the so-called murder
was really justifiable homicide in E
an effort to protect his wife or to
defend his life after daring to sak
for his wages.
Well, in Florida a little while
ago, they lynched two Negro boys
right under the governor's nose,
and I never learned the truth back
of the motive for the lynching
until I came south, and perhaps
never would have learned it through
any word written from Florida.
But I met a man who knows me,
and whom I have known for over
thirty years, and who was right
there where
lynching took
place, and he
me what he
the
told
would not dare even write even to
me, lest in some accidental way
he should be betrayed. I know you
marvel at such fear, but when you


lynching history violence
Firearms Laws Laws
There is no need pretending that America is just
now, turning to violent spasms. History does not sup-
port this emotional assessment. America has always
been a land of violence. We love it. We love to fight
and kill. The frontier days made the gun manly. For
years, lynching of Negroes was looked upon as a tra-
ditional Southern ritual that even the North was in-
clined to respect and even imitate.
Thousand or more Negroes met their deaths by
lynch mobs whose actions did not so much as cause
a ripple of public indignation. What's more, for dec-
ades, Congress had refused to legislate against
lynching. It took refuge into the reasoning that such
legislation would be an invasion of the police power
of the state. It was not until the passage of the 1957
Civil Rights Act was this legalism knocked down.
In the last four years, in the state of Missis-
sippi alone, 46 Negroes have been killed without a
single conviction of the perpetrators of the crimes.
It is only just now that American conscience is
awakening to the embarrassing moral lapse. Ghetto
riots causing destruction of high-income, slum prop-
erty of absentee white landlords, and the assassina-
tion of prominent citizens are bringing to the fore
blood since the birth of this nation.
Despite the fact that both Dr. Martin Luther
King and Senator Robert Francis Kennedy used all
the rhetoric at their command to arouse the national
conscience against violence, they met death by vio-
lence.

education of blacks
HE CHRISTIAN EDUCATOR.
as a line of fire. The South would see no way of dealing with slavery
except to strengthen and fortify it at every point. Its extinction they
would not contemplate. Even a suggestion for its amelioration was
regarded as dangerous to the safety of the State and to the sacredness
of the family.
WHO PAYS FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE NEGRO IN
THE SOUTH?
THE Rev. Jno. J. Tigert, D. D., Fraternal Delegate from the Meth-
odist Episcopal Church, South, in his address delivered before the
General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church at Omaha, Ne-
braska, May 17, 1892, said:
"Up to January, 1889, eleven of the former Slave States had expended more
than $37,000,000 in the maintenance of normal and public schools for the Negro
youth, poor Mississippi leading the van with $7,136,800. If we allow $4,000,000
per annum as the sum raised for the same purpose during the three and a half
years since these figures were obtained, the Southern States have raised, since the
war, in round numbers, $50 000,000 for the education of the negro. This is the ac-
